hey everyone welcome back Laszlo
Montgomery here China history podcast
episode 220 the one where maybe we might
get to the whole raison d'être of this
series poetry in the Tang Dynasty
China's most famous period for poetry
that is the tongue was long dynasty
almost 300 years 618 and 907 but before
we get to these glorious centuries in
Chinese history
let's finish things up here in the mid
3rd century we left off last episode
looking at the seven sages of the bamboo
grove the julene cheese shin a model for
subsequent bands of witty and talented
poets and writers who stood out from the
crowd and were immortalized for their
individual and collective genius at
their craft we've seen how things
progressed from the four character per
line simple but elegant poems of the
classic of poetry the surging into lyric
poetry Fuu epic poems or rhapsodies the
youthful music Bureau and youthful
poetry and finally the Jen on Styles
championed by the three towels and other
literary greats by the final days of the
Eastern Han Dynasty the rules of poetry
from Confucius as time were all being
souped up because in these more
sophisticated times more sophisticated
poetry needed to be composed starting in
265 and ending in 618 was a period in
Chinese history called the Six Dynasties
these six are basically the gin that
commenced following the Three Kingdoms
period plus the nun beige halt northern
and southern dynasties and I myself like
to distinguish between the Djinn and
northern and southern dynasties period
but sometimes they're both lumped
together into the Six Dynasties
throughout the six dynasties era the
three strands of poetry painting and
calligraphy
all continued to twist around each other
no you had three different things going
on with painting poetry and calligraphy
early Chinese masters had begun to
combine them into one these most
important of all skills and elite
society there would be a painting and on
that painting would be either the
painters calligraphy or perhaps that of
the owner of the painting and in some
cases even the calligraphy of the
emperor and those remarks written in
superb calligraphy would always be there
thoughts expressed in a few lines of
poetry to be great in any one of the
three arts would gain any man or woman
praise and admiration from their peers
and in greater society to master all
three that made you immortal in the
tongue they'll call these the Sun Jia
the three perfections combining all
three into one single work not I want to
downplay the fact that all this time
poetry was also recited in the fields
and streams of the countryside as far as
the beautiful people officials and
scholars and everyone else fortunate to
have had traditional Confucian
upbringing
nothing topped poetry in terms of a
medium for how a man woman or young
adult could express themselves and when
people got together especially in the
top rungs of society in all kinds of
forms and as a part of certain drinking
games occasions customs or a form of
ancient Chinese repartee poetry was how
you said it like I said if you were good
at it people looked up to you in the
tongue poetry was so woven into the
fabric of daily aristocratic life when
you went to visit someone when they
weren't home to receive you you didn't
leave a note you left a poem to describe
a moment in time you might express it in
a poem by the tongue this was how it was
just like in the Han Dynasty because of
the Silk Road by the Tong
those trade routes first carved out in
the second century BCE had come a long
way
China was awash with all kinds of new
cultural influences from people from all
over the known world who packed up their
wares from where they came from and took
that half year journey to trade in the
tongue capital Chung on and in all the
great trading centers between the Levant
and Japan so all these happenings with
these mingling of cultures going on
energized by the impact of this growth
and commerce naturally had some
spillover effect on the new poetry that
was becoming popular at the outside of
the tongue dynasty by an LBJ landslide
the most popular single reservoir of
Chinese literature was the wench in a
work with thee no-nonsense title of
selected works of literature it was
compiled by xiao tong eldest son of
another literature loving emperor wu
this one the founder of the Liang
dynasty the third of the southern
dynasties in the northern southern
dynasties period Emperor Wu of Liang
reigned 502 to 549 and during the five
20s Xiao Tong worked with a group of
scholars to compile what they believed
to be the best of the best as far as
poetry and prose was concerned in China
from the end of the warring States
period up to that current time in the
sixth century and here with the wenshan
we can see literature just making it
start as something other than a tool to
please or serve the royal court this
when Shen these selected texts contains
761 works of prose and poetry from a
hundred and thirty writers there were 37
categories of literary works including
styles we discussed last episode or saw
poetry and a great number of full
Rhapsody's in sure
homes in this literary anthology became
the gold standard for a long time as far
as the greatest single compilation of
poems from China's ancient past the five
Confucian classics and the great works
of Taoism were left out of the when chin
on purpose and those were a class of
their own Shelton and his team of
librarians and scholars put it all
together though this eldest son of this
young dynasty emperor literati us never
lived long enough to become king himself
the importance of this work and his name
that is attached to it still gave him a
nice amount of street cred in Chinese
history I know we sort of heap all the
glory on the Han and Tang dynasties but
the Six Dynasties period from the
conclusion of the three kingdoms to the
sway was also a most fertile time for
all kinds of literature as I mentioned
last episode this was the part of
Chinese history when Buddhism and Taoism
hit the big time
so this compilation the wenshan remained
a must-have addition to any scholars
library till about the time whether
you're in dynasty when you know after
seven hundred years it was starting to
become a little out of touch with the
times will they ever say that about John
Paul George and Ringo not all of it but
a lot of the works contained in the
wenshan managed to make it down to our
modern times and a lot of it
interestingly ended up being discovered
in the caves of dun Wong besides that
anthology prior to the Tong
there were three other collections that
together with the wenshan comprised the
state of the art in Chinese poetry
across every known style I'll just
mention them quickly and if there's a
translation for them available all will
be in the show notes rest assured the
first one I already mentioned last
episode this was the collection of music
Bureau ballads compiled by Gore mouch in
the UFO sure
if not for this compilation by qualm
ouch in that fou style of poetry might
have been lost to us forever the second
collection and this one came out just
prior to the establishment of the Tang
Dynasty was called new songs from a Jade
Terrace the youth high chignon this
compilation of poetry like the UFO sure
gee I just mentioned we also have the
cultured people of the Liang dynasty to
thank the new songs from a jade Terrace
contains 670 poems from this southern
dynasties period this work is credited
to Xu Liang he was given the job by Shao
Gong who is better known in the history
books as the young Emperor genuine son
of young Emperor Wu and brother to Xiao
Tong compiler up the wen Cheng Xiao Tong
was the elder brother and Crown Prince
but he died before his time and it was
shell gang who became Emperor in 5:49
this father and two sons trio rivaled
the three toes and their contribution to
Chinese poetry and literature one
brother compiled the wenshan and the
other one oversaw the youth high chignon
these new songs from a jade Terrace and
together with their father the Liang
Emperor rule they were the greatest
benefactors in the compilation and
preservation of Chinese poetry during
the Six Dynasties period that proceeded
at the time the third compilation and I
wanted to mention contained the largest
collection of all of Chinese poetry up
to the Sui dynasty late 6th century in
this collection compiled in modern times
in fact is called the Shen Qin Han Wei
Qing none beach house shirt and is
conveniently arranged chronologically
and each poet was given a short bio and
valuable commentaries on their poems
Qing Han Wei Qing nan beige how they're
just the names of the dynasties and
periods from 221 BCE to 589 C it's as
much a reference book
it is a compilation of poems this is
probably the most exhaustive work of its
kind for that pre zwei dynasty period
thankfully between these three works and
others that also survived in fragments
and as parts of lesser-known
compilations we have a rock-solid
repository of pre tong chinese poetry
that offered some imagery of those times
and lets us peek into the minds of the
people who lived in that period from
over a millennium ago one last thing the
amount of poetry that got written in
ancient times far far surpassed what we
and our de managed to receive and I've
said it before much more was lost than
what we got to enjoy today but for a
poem to get inclusion into any of these
anthologies or collections that were
commissioned by royalty they had to be
good to make it into these works there
would always be a team of committed
scholars picking every character of
every line of the poems apart and
determining if the composition they read
was worthy of immortality and whatever
they were commissioned to edit and
compile so what we get to read today
truly is the best you can get and last
point without all these compilations
that I've mentioned going back to Wang
Yi and the shoots of Chang Chu the
quantity of poems received in our day
would be even much less the first ones
to put the Tong dynasty poets on the
highest possible pedestal were the
people of the song it was in the Song
Dynasty roughly 962 1279 that the
greatest tongue poets were lionized for
their achievements and taking this most
Chinese of cultural treasures to its
highest possible form and pretty much
ever since Tang Dynasty poets have
always stood slightly off on their own
is the greatest Chinese poets of all
time and the greatest time for poetry
and this greatest of dynasties was the
high tong the shunting
I took a while to get there so we'll
begin with the early tong first the true
tong the early Tong was roughly 618 to
ghalsuu - just before shen song this was
the period of what's 1/10 so you know
buddhism has already permeated every
corner of the tong empire four
superstars who best represented the
collective achievements of the time that
preceded the high tong were the true
tong suit yet the four Paragons are for
eminences of the early tongue or two
Tong these were law bean Wong lucha lien
wanbo and yang Jung they came right at
the beginning of the dynasty mid 7th
century and kicked off what would be
called China's greatest centuries for
classical poetry history remembers the
four Paragons of the early tongue as the
earliest group of tongue poets who began
to break with the past styles and and
begin something more fresh and current
at the outside of the tongue this early
tongue period the Luo Yin Lu sure had
become the style that everyone began to
compose Luo Yin mean it just means five
characters a loo sure was this
relatively new hip poetry that really
gathered momentum during the early Tong
a lot of the great stuff that followed
in the high tong came from these rien
Luscher these five characters per line
eight lines regulated verse there were
five characters per line and then this
got pushed out to seven and the seven
character per line poem was called a Qi
Liu poem versus the five character per
line Liu Liu style Qi means seven all
means five no matter five or seven
characters per line
these Luscher style poems all have the
same rhyming pattern always on the even
lines and whatever the rhyme was it
stayed constant throughout the poem the
evolution of this
sure style of poetry I guess you could
go back to the cool sure style with its
Confucian overtones four to seven
characters per line and this led to the
Ginty sure Ginty just means modern form
or modern style and sure means poem it's
the opposite of GU t-shir GU means old
or ancient in fact the Chinese
characters sure in the end hmm became
the Chinese character that ended up
being sort of an umbrella character for
all forms of poetry if you said you
liked Chinese poetry you would say you
like Chinese shared then once that was
established you could get down to the
nitty-gritty of the particular styles
that appeal to you by now you're
familiar with some of them Ginty sure
became simply known as regulated verse
and it was this regulated verse in all
its forms that became one of the
hallmarks of the Tang Dynasty all the
greatest tongue poets I'll name between
now and the final bell were all masters
of this Ginty sure poetry they didn't
invent it it first appeared during the
Liang dynasty that nice fertile period
for Chinese culture like all the past
and future Paragons of poetry
each of these four eminences of the
early tong have their famous poems
attributed to them
and that all of these tongue poems were
in the Jin t-shir styles poets in the
Tong we're still composing its poetry
and the style of Chilean as well as full
Rhapsody's that stuff didn't go out of
style and still had centuries of staying
power left in them as far as the one
name that more than any other deserves a
mention with respect to assuring in this
new Jin t-shirt
regulated verse there was one he was
shun yet who lived for forty one two
five thirteen that puts him in the leo
song and southern XI dynasties the two
southern dynasties that pre
CEDA the Liang so this regulated verse
and all the tones and rules and
regulations started with shunya in the
Six Dynasties period and was later taken
to its highest form by these tongue
poets starting of course with the early
tongue the tail end of the early Tong
period the time of woods attend and it
was already no shortage of renowned
poets during Empress wolves time at the
top
the definitive anthology of this period
was compiled this one by poet named Trey
wrong and the name of this work that
stands alongside so many other Imperial
sanctioned compilations was called the
collection of precious glories the true
yangji this anthology of poems contain
the works of Trey wrong lead Chou and
Chong yet those three names in
particular rose to the fore in this late
early Tang period of Chinese classical
poetry what's most interesting about
this collection was that well this was
one of those that had been heralded
throughout the centuries so its
existence was known but sadly no copies
existed that is not until the
discoveries in the more cow caves in
Dunhuang in 1907 by Aurel Stein in all
about fifty five poems from this
legendary collection were recovered from
the caves about 20 percent of the work
you see this is how Chinese history
keeps happening
remember the oracle bones that only got
discovered at the start of the 20th
century up until then the shang dynasty
was still a myth discoveries are being
made every day in China that reveals a
little bit more about the ancient past
some of it we read or hear about in
journals and in the press but most of
the discoveries the incremental gains it
doesn't make the news but this discovery
of fragments from the collection of
precious glories added to the
understanding about those years from 692
what's a ten carved out a place in
history as the only woman to rule China
as Empress in her own name I have to say
in tongue poetry
no matter the merits and achievements of
those poets who came before and after
the hai Tang period their fame and the
admiration people had for their poetry
will always be eclipsed by the
brightness of the stars of this hai tang
period that lasted from 712 to 755 yeah
the supernova was so great didn't take
more than just the few top names of this
period to drown out so much of the
greatness of a thousand others and
fueling the hottest part of that
supernova of poetic greatness were three
men li bai du feu and wang wei will look
at the lives of all three and read a few
of their poems what's most convenient
and interesting is that all three were
contemporary with each other
li bai and du feu even met each other
and kept up quite a vigorous
correspondence the rock-and-roll
equivalent of this heightened era would
have been England in America in the
1960s and you could rest assured during
a period such as this when so many
greats were all composing poetry all at
the same time these renowned tong poets
well they didn't form bands or anything
but so popular were they and so beloved
were they by all lovers of poetry many
of them would be immortalized by being a
member of certain groups with some
catchy name that maybe define them and
by remembering these legendary groups of
poets it helped put some historical
background behind their work the high
Tom kicked off with the four gentlemen
of WA Chong the Wu Chun soo shirt these
four all came from Chun soo and judge
Jung two provinces in China that decade
after decade and century after century
would time and again keep delivering
some
the greatest literary figures in China's
long history there were so many
compilations of tongue poetry but two
stood out above all the rest
and neither of them came out in the
tongue nor the soul northern or Ming the
two definitive works that are considered
the ultimate compilations of poetry from
the Tang Dynasty came out in the Ching
and how a tongue poet managed to gain
immortality is one of the greatest poets
to come out of the dynasty most
celebrated for its poetry was by
inclusion in the tongue sure son by show
known in English as the 300 tongue poems
the other was a chant hung sure the
Complete Book of tongue poetry this
chant hung sure this Complete Book of
tongue poetry this work preceded the 300
tongue poems and had as its sponsor no
less an emperor then Kang XI himself who
called for all known tongue poems in his
day early Qing Dynasty late 17th early
18th century to be compiled into one
single comprehensive work and after all
the heavy lifting was done and this team
of scholars had scoured the land for any
and all poetry composed in the tongue
when it was presented to the Emperor
there were 49,000 poems culled from 2200
tongue poets of various renown and as I
said when it was all done and the Kangxi
Emperor in 1705 gave it his stamp of
approval well it was quite impressive if
you read to a day from this collection
it would take you 67 years to plow
through it then later on at the time of
the Kings XI Emperor's grandson Qianlong
in 1763 he called for a kind of
shortlist or you know box set of
platinum hits if you will of the 300
most important poems from the 49,000
found in the Complete Book of Tong
poetry
of course the big three leap I do foo
and Wang Wei are well represented in
both works but those who made it into
the Tong sure son by show the 300 Tong
poems they were in a very elite group I
wondered why the number 300 not seemed
rather arbitrary well 300 was the
approximate quantity of the poems that
are contained in the ancient classic of
poetry the searching the tongue sure son
by show was sort of a nod to that most
ancient of all Chinese poetry
collections like all great anthologies
and compilations the 300 Tong poems also
had its champion this was swoon Jiu Xuan
Zhu sought to compile a single work that
not only contained all the most
important tongue poems but those which
had the additional value as an aid for
students in their studies the 300 Tong
poems I'll have a link to this work in
translation plenty of Chinese children
carry this book in their school bag I
doubt it's much used today but back in
the day ching and republican period and
it was like Dick and Jane it was a
schoolhouse staple My dear listener
savio up in the great nation of Canada
can attest to this he told me back in
the 70s and Hong Kong they had to
memorize selected poems from the 300
poems and the penalties for not being
able to regurgitate them on demand meant
a few strokes in the cane and forty
years later thanks to a few raps on the
palms of his hands he could still say a
few so maybe some truth after all the
Proverbs 13 14 besides the three biggest
names just mentioned you also had the
three biggest names who came after them
li Shang in Hmong Quran and by GE we'll
look at them too in later episodes the
300 tongue poems and the Complete Book
of tongue poetry were the two most
famous of all the 130 or so anthologies
of
poetry compiled between the song and
Qing dynasties plus later on after the
discoveries of dun Wong were cataloged
and studied in the early 20th century
even more tong poems were added to the
vast reservoir already received I wanted
to mention just one more these very
renowned and well-respected works that
not only brought everything current
about tong poetry into the Ming Dynasty
1382 1644 it had this innovative 9 rank
grading system where every poem in the
anthology was given a critical analysis
and a ranking in toto this work known as
the tongue sure peen weight contained
five thousand seven hundred and sixty
nine poems from six hundred and twenty
tongue poets and the name forever
associated with its compilation was
gulping in English tongue chirping Wei
was called the graded compendium of
tongue poetry any time a poem was
accompanied by some kind of commentary
or ranking is in the tongue chirping way
it was like not only getting the poem
but the cliffnotes as well that helped
to provide further insight into the
poems meaning from scholars who lived
much closer to the times when these
poems were actually composed let me say
again that's a constant throughout the
history of Chinese poetry as soon as
enough time had passed
Emperor's would you know often in their
quest for immortality call for someone
to go see where the country was at this
moment in China's history with respect
to its poetry and literature and lucky
for us these great works would get
painstakingly compiled by passionate
scholars each dynasty had their own mega
projects that they championed in the
bottom line is that thanks to many of
these Imperial vanity projects there's
more Tung poetry that made it down to
our time than we can almost ever read in
the next episode we're going to start
examining the
Maine poets of the high Tung period the
shunting hai Tong it's a dramatic way to
say the poetry that was produced during
the 43 year reign of Emperor Shenzhen he
had one of his poems included in the 300
timing poems I guess all things
considered since this high Tung period
yielded such a rich harvest on the Shen
song Emperor's watch it's only right
that they gave him a little face and
included one of his poems among the
elite 300 he was the son of the great
song emperor which meant his grin was
what's a tent-like emperors wu of han
and young it's all tall and his sons and
many emperors who followed him Shenzhen
was a hardcore patron of the Arts I'm
like I said sort of styled himself as an
emperor literati us not the first and
not the last that's for sure his
enthusiasm for theater and dance was
especially strong he sometimes called
the father of Chinese Theatre and he was
also said to be very accomplished in the
Chinese martial arts so a guy like this
who had his pedigree his dramatic story
prior to the commencement of his reign
his love of learning theater literature
the arts
such a long reign to boot it's no wonder
Tong poetry enjoyed its Golden Age
during this reign of li longji the
Shenzhen Emperor next episode we'll
start looking at all the greats and
maybe hear a few poems you never know
okay one last thing oh boy if you didn't
catch the recent Seneca what a treat the
great mark rose well my relative so I've
been told by you know hundreds of
Chinese was the guest this time hosted
by two other faves of mine David Moser
and Anthony Tao great episode recorded
at the bookworm in Beijing if you're a
student of the Chinese language just
interested don't miss this one one of
the best all-time Senecas
also go check out Anthony towels new
work if you like poetry and classical
guitar oh it's two for the price of one
I'll have a link to that in the show
notes the last tribe on earth check it
out at poetry X music dot Bandcamp
dot-com Wow
listen to the whole thing already these
honker Tooting Anthony Taos poetry and
Leon Halton on classical guitar okay for
now let's put the bookmark in a la sala
Montgomery signing off from Los Angeles
Southern California beseeching you as I
always do to come back next time for
another exciting episode of the China
history podcast